README.md, before:

# Watson Discovery Broker Service

This project implements a micro service deployable as a Cloud Foundry application on bluemix to facade Watson Discovery service as there is always needs to support data mapping between the raw json response from Watson and to expose special user interface for the returned data. The value also of this broker code is to support resiliency, service management, logging. Therefore this broker exposes REST api that user interface born on cloud or IBM BPM coaches can consume.
The concept of broker is presented in the IBM Cognitive Reference Architecture for Engagement and Discovery as illustrated in the figure below, as the 'Discovery Application' icon.  
![WDS Reference Architecture](doc/WDS-ra.png)

# Current Version
This version is under development. You can fork it for your own purpose and develop your own solution by reusing the code. If you want to contribute please submit a pull request on this repository. The contribution guidelines are [here](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/refarch-cognitive#contribute)

# Pre requisites
To be able to run this Watson Discovery broker you need your own instance of a bluemix Watson Discovery Service. Once you have created this service rename the server/routes/env-templ.json to env.json and modify the userid, password, environment_id and collection_id to point to your own service.

Be sure to have setup Cloud Foundry Command line interface and bluemix CLI.

# Skill set
To understand how to build a **Discovery** collection the following [tutorial](doc/tutorial/wds-lab.md) will help to go step by step with weather related corpus. The audience of this tutorial is for beginner and developer

# What you will learn from this project
* Watson Discovery creation and development activities
* Watson Discovery API and how to integrate within a a web application or a micro service
* How to add resiliency to your broker


# Clone the repository to your local machine
### If you do not have git...
Install git on Mac by installing the Command Line Tools for xCode.

To do this, open a terminal and execute the following command.
```
xcode-select --install
```

On Windows:
Download and install the package from https://git-for-windows.github.io and install it.

### Clone the repository
To clone this repository to your local machine, please use 'git' or a graphical tool like 'sourcetree'.
Example for git:

Go to a directory where you want the source to be created in, clone the repo:
```
mkdir ~/stsa/WatsonDiscovery
cd ~/stsa/WatsonDiscovery
git clone https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/refarch-cognitive-discovery-broker.git
cd refarch-cognitive-discovery-broker
```


# Build
Be sure to run the npm installation to get the dependent javascript modules
```
# To update npm tool globally
sudo npm i -g npm
# install the following package globally too
sudo npm i -g node
sudo npm i -g node-gyp@3.6.2
# Then install the package from package json
npm install
npm install @angular/cli@latest

```
Run `ng build` to build the client Angular 2 project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `-prod` flag for a production build.

If you want to work on the user interface only you can use the command (this is for UI work only and will not successfully connect to the Bluemix instance - to do that perform the next steps)
```
ng serve
```

# Test Locally
Change the `env-temp.json` file in `./server/routes/env-templ.json` to match your environment, name it `env.json`

The environment information can be found in Collection screen:
![Collection information](doc/discovery-screen1.png)

And from the Service Credentials screen in the Bluemix Dashboard
![Credentials information](doc/bmx-service-credentials1.png)

Add the username, password, environment_id, collection_id and configuration_id parameters where needed.

```
{
    "discovery": {
        "username": "",
        "password": "",
        "version_date": "2016-12-01",
        "version":"v1",
        "environment_id": "",
        "collection_id": ""
    },
    "weatherCollection" : {
      "username": "",
      "password": "",
      "version_date": "2016-12-01",
      "version":"v1",
      "environment_id": "",
      "collection_id": "",
      "configuration_id":""
    }
}
```
And save the file as env.json

Use the following command to start the local server:
```
npm run dev
```

If you run into any npm dependency issues, or missing modules, add them using the command
```
npm install <missing module>
```

And rerun the command to start the server
```
npm run dev
```

Then use a web browser to http://localhost:6010 which should display a home page with different choices. (The port number may be different, consult the server trace)  
![Simple Query](doc/wds-ui-home.png)  

The News feature presents a simple form to enter the company name and product name to let Watson search for those information inside the News curated data.   
![Simple Query](doc/wds-news-results.png)   
The Weather one is presenting a form to select a persona, predefined query or enter free text query, then returns the results.



# Deploy to bluemix
We will not go over the detail on how to create a cloud foundry application in bluemix but you need to do the following steps
* create a nodejs SDK cloud foundry application, be sure to use a name not in conflict with existing application under the mybluemix.net domain.
![Bluemix Cloud Foundry App](doc/bmx-cf-nodesdk.png)
* Using cloud foundry command line interface login to your region, organization and space.
```
cf login
```
* Ensure the file Manifest.yml reflects the name of the host and URL you have configured in Bluemix nodejs cloud application:
```
applications:
- path: .
  memory: 256M
  instances: 1
  domain: mybluemix.net
  name: refarch-wds-broker
  host: refarch-wds-broker
  disk_quota: 1024M
```
* perform a push with the name of the application, for example:
```
cf push refarch-cognitive-discovery-broker
```
* Validate the deployment on your bluemix dashboard and using the defined URL.

# Code explanation
The client folder includes the angular 2 user interface, the user interface is used for demonstration purpose. As micro service the more important part is on the server side.

This server code use expressjs and its middleware mechanism to map URL to function. The `server.js` declare the component to use and start a web server based on nodejs.

The interesting parts are explained in the snippet below:
```
// As the server exposes REST api to be consumed by the UI we delegate to a separate api module
const api = require('./routes/api');

// Point static path to dist where angular 2 compiled js reside
app.use(express.static(path.join(__dirname, '../dist')));

// Set our api routes
app.use('/api', api);

// Catch all other routes and return the index file as single page application
app.get('*', (req, res) => {
  res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname, '../dist/index.html'));
});
```

When the URL is based as /api/discovery the module in charge is routes/features/discovery.js. This code uses the watson cloud develop api for nodejs.

## REST APIs exposed
The broker code offers two entry points and mapping user interface:

 Description | API  | User interface
 ----------- | ---- | --------------
   | /api/company/production | Query news
   | /api/weather | Weather

---

# Frequent Asked Questions
They are in a separate document [here](doc/faq.md)

Commit message:

Dockerize the broker and deploy to kubernetes

README.md, after:

# Watson Discovery Broker Service

This project implements a micro service deployable as a Cloud Foundry application on bluemix to facade Watson Discovery service as there is always needs to support data mapping between the raw json response from Watson and to expose special user interface for the returned data. The value also of this broker code is to support resiliency, service management, logging. Therefore this broker exposes REST api that user interface born on cloud or IBM BPM coaches can consume.
The concept of broker is presented in the IBM Cognitive Reference Architecture for Engagement and Discovery as illustrated in the figure below, as the 'Discovery Application' icon.  
![WDS Reference Architecture](doc/WDS-ra.png)

# Current Version
This version is under development. You can fork it for your own purpose and develop your own solution by reusing the code. If you want to contribute please submit a pull request on this repository. The contribution guidelines are [here](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/refarch-cognitive#contribute)

# Pre requisites
To be able to run this Watson Discovery broker you need your own instance of a bluemix Watson Discovery Service. Once you have created this service rename the server/routes/env-templ.json to env.json and modify the userid, password, environment_id and collection_id to point to your own service.

Be sure to have setup Cloud Foundry Command line interface and bluemix CLI.

# Skill set
To understand how to build a **Discovery** collection the following [tutorial](doc/tutorial/wds-lab.md) will help to go step by step with weather related corpus. The audience of this tutorial is for beginner and developer

# What you will learn from this project
* Watson Discovery creation and development activities
* Watson Discovery API and how to integrate within a a web application or a micro service
* How to add resiliency to your broker


# Clone the repository to your local machine
### If you do not have git...
Install git on Mac by installing the Command Line Tools for xCode.

To do this, open a terminal and execute the following command.
```
xcode-select --install
```

On Windows:
Download and install the package from https://git-for-windows.github.io and install it.

### Clone the repository
To clone this repository to your local machine, please use 'git' or a graphical tool like 'sourcetree'.
Example for git:

Go to a directory where you want the source to be created in, clone the repo:
```
mkdir ~/stsa/WatsonDiscovery
cd ~/stsa/WatsonDiscovery
git clone https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/refarch-cognitive-discovery-broker.git
cd refarch-cognitive-discovery-broker
```


# Build
Be sure to run the npm installation to get the dependent javascript modules
```
# To update npm tool globally
sudo npm i -g npm
# install the following package globally too
sudo npm i -g node
sudo npm i -g node-gyp@3.6.2
# Then install the package from package json
npm install
npm install @angular/cli@latest

```
Run `ng build` to build the client Angular 2 project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `-prod` flag for a production build.

If you want to work on the user interface only you can use the command (this is for UI work only and will not successfully connect to the Bluemix instance - to do that perform the next steps)
```
ng serve
```

# Test Locally
Change the `env-temp.json` file in `./server/routes/env-templ.json` to match your environment, name it `env.json`

The environment information can be found in Collection screen:
![Collection information](doc/discovery-screen1.png)

And from the Service Credentials screen in the Bluemix Dashboard
![Credentials information](doc/bmx-service-credentials1.png)

Add the username, password, environment_id, collection_id and configuration_id parameters where needed.

```
{
    "discovery": {
        "username": "",
        "password": "",
        "version_date": "2016-12-01",
        "version":"v1",
        "environment_id": "",
        "collection_id": ""
    },
    "weatherCollection" : {
      "username": "",
      "password": "",
      "version_date": "2016-12-01",
      "version":"v1",
      "environment_id": "",
      "collection_id": "",
      "configuration_id":""
    }
}
```
And save the file as env.json

Use the following command to start the local server:
```
npm run dev
```

If you run into any npm dependency issues, or missing modules, add them using the command
```
npm install <missing module>
```

And rerun the command to start the server
```
npm run dev
```

Then use a web browser to http://localhost:6010 which should display a home page with different choices. (The port number may be different, consult the server trace)  
![Simple Query](doc/wds-ui-home.png)  

The News feature presents a simple form to enter the company name and product name to let Watson search for those information inside the News curated data.   
![Simple Query](doc/wds-news-results.png)   
The Weather one is presenting a form to select a persona, predefined query or enter free text query, then returns the results.



# Deploy to bluemix
We will not go over the detail on how to create a cloud foundry application in bluemix but you need to do the following steps
* create a nodejs SDK cloud foundry application, be sure to use a name not in conflict with existing application under the mybluemix.net domain.
![Bluemix Cloud Foundry App](doc/bmx-cf-nodesdk.png)
* Using cloud foundry command line interface login to your region, organization and space.
```
cf login
```
* Ensure the file Manifest.yml reflects the name of the host and URL you have configured in Bluemix nodejs cloud application:
```
applications:
- path: .
  memory: 256M
  instances: 1
  domain: mybluemix.net
  name: refarch-wds-broker
  host: refarch-wds-broker
  disk_quota: 1024M
```
* perform a push with the name of the application, for example:
```
cf push refarch-cognitive-discovery-broker
```
* Validate the deployment on your bluemix dashboard and using the defined URL.

# Deploy to Kubernetes cluster
See the note [here](doc/wds-broker-kube.md)

# Code explanation
The client folder includes the angular 2 user interface, the user interface is used for demonstration purpose. As micro service the more important part is on the server side.

This server code use expressjs and its middleware mechanism to map URL to function. The `server.js` declare the component to use and start a web server based on nodejs.

The interesting parts are explained in the snippet below:
```
// As the server exposes REST api to be consumed by the UI we delegate to a separate api module
const api = require('./routes/api');

// Point static path to dist where angular 2 compiled js reside
app.use(express.static(path.join(__dirname, '../dist')));

// Set our api routes
app.use('/api', api);

// Catch all other routes and return the index file as single page application
app.get('*', (req, res) => {
  res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname, '../dist/index.html'));
});
```

When the URL is based as /api/discovery the module in charge is routes/features/discovery.js. This code uses the watson cloud develop api for nodejs.

## REST APIs exposed
The broker code offers two entry points and mapping user interface:

 Description | API  | User interface
 ----------- | ---- | --------------
   | /api/company/production | Query news
   | /api/weather | Weather

---

# Frequent Asked Questions
They are in a separate document [here](doc/faq.md)
